Hey everyone. Welcome back to Movie Recap.
Today I'm gonna show you a movie called, RoboCop.
It is a 2014 American superhero film, directed
by Jos Padilha starring Joel Kinnaman.
Television personality Pat Novak starts off
an episode of his show, "The Novak Element"
by pointing out that every country in the
world except for the United States is under
high security with droids from multinational
conglomerate OmniCorp.
The action shifts to Tehran, where one OmniCorp
employee, Rick Maddox is handing out red asset
bracelets to Kelly Perkins, one of Novak's
reporters and camera crews as they observe
the large droids and other robots doing a
scan on citizens in the area. From inside
a compound, a mother and her son, Navid, watch
the droids do their work. Navid's father Arash
leads a group of suicide bombers outside to
capture themselves getting killed live on
international television. They launch their
attack, with all the bombers getting themselves
killed by the droids, though they succeed
in taking out some of the EM-208 droids themselves.
Navid runs out with a knife in hand and is
gunned down by one of the ED-209s on patrol.
The camera crew captures all of this.
Novak continues by admiring how the droids
handled the situation, pointing out that OmniCorp
CEO Raymond Sellars has the right idea to
push forward for use of these droids in the
U.S., but Senator Hubert Dreyfuss is against
it, having issued the Dreyfuss Act to prevent
this type of law enforcement. Novak ends by
asking why America is so robophobic.
In Detroit, Detroit Police Department detective
Alex Murphy walks to a meeting with Chief
Karen Dean. In her office are two other cops,
John Lake and Andre Daniels. Dean reprimands
Murphy for the events of the previous night.
Murphy and his partner Jack Lewis had gotten
into a shootout with men working for crime
boss Antoine Vallon, killing six of them and
critically wounding Lewis. Lake and Daniels
are not happy with Murphy for intruding on
their investigation into Vallon, but Murphy
counters that their inability to produce an
arrest on Vallon after two years of investigation
suggests them to be dirty. Once Lake and Daniels
leave the office, Murphy tells his story.
Murphy's story is told in flashback. He and
Lewis have been undercover to crack down on
shipments of illegal firearms. Posing as buyers,
they interview a dealer named Jerry White,
but they begin to think he's selling dirty
weapons. Acting like they believe Jerry is
an undercover cop, they scare him into revealing
that he works for Antoine Vallon. Murphy and
Lewis run the serial numbers of the weapons
being sold and discover something shocking:
they are guns that should have been locked
up in the evidence room, which means Vallon's
got cops on his payroll.
Against their better judgment, Murphy and
Lewis go to a restaurant to meet with Vallon.
Lewis insists that they need backup, since
Vallon's guys might shoot them for target
practice, but Murphy thinks calling for backup
will tip Vallon off.
The meeting starts smoothly. Vallon and his
right hand man hear Murphy and Lewis out,
and appear to fall for their undercover identities.
Unfortunately, just as they're about to close
the deal, somebody betrays Murphy and Lewis
to Vallon and notifies Vallon by smartphone.
Vallon immediately leaves the table just as
a few cars pull up in front of the restaurant,
and a group of gunmen armed with pistols and
submachine guns open fire. Murphy and Lewis
return fire with their pistols, pinned down
in one of the booths. After a lengthy exchange
of gunfire, during which several henchmen
are killed, Murphy escapes outside by jumping
through a glass window into an alleyway. A
couple of henchmen are waiting in the alley
to ambush him. Murphy uses a dumpster as a
shield while advancing on and shooting at
the henchmen. He kills two of them, and the
remaining one escapes by foot. Lewis prepares
to follow Murphy when a henchman hiding in
the kitchen bursts out and fires on him. He
manages to return fire and kill the henchman,
but in the process is shot in his right shoulder.
Murphy stays with him until an ambulance can
arrive, and Vallon manages to escape.
In the present, Chief Dean reminds Murphy
that he isn't supposed to carry out such an
assignment without talking to her first.
In Washington, DC, Sellars is testifying in
front of a Senate subcomittee hearing with
Senator Dreyfuss in regards to the matter
of using OmniCorp droids as law enforcement.
Dreyfuss argues that a machine could not feel
anything if it were to kill anybody, even
a child, and Sellars reluctantly admits as
much. On return to Detroit, Sellars meets
up with his marketing associates, Liz Kline
and Tom Pope. Realizing that more than half
of the country's population will not stand
behind robots protecting their streets, Sellars
proposes that they get a man into a machine.
At the OmniCorp rehab center, Dr. Dennett
Norton and his assistant Jae Kim are tending
to a man who has had his arms replaced with
artificial robotic limbs. Although he is nervous
to use them at first, Dr. Norton convinces
him to give it a go. The man starts to play
the guitar, and he and his wife are overcome
with joy. The man's emotional levels begin
to rise, which would interfere with the program.
He tones it down but then says he needs emotions
to play. Dr. Norton is then called away by
Sellars. They, along with Kline and Pope,
review potential amputee candidates for the
man-in-a-machine program, all of them veteran
police officers, but Dr. Norton and Sellars
reject each one either due to their physical
form or their psychological screenings.
Meanwhile, it's revealed to us that the two
officers Chief Dean shooed out of her office
earlier, Lake and Daniels, are the men who
betrayed Murphy to Vallon. They meet Vallon
at a bar, where he gently chides them for
not warning him sooner. He considers bribing
Murphy to get him in line, but Daniels counters
that that's not an option, as Murphy is going
to come down harder on Vallon from here on
out. The two detectives think it would be
easier to just kill Murphy, an idea that Vallon
initially is hesitant to on the grounds of
the increased attention he'll get from the
cops until Lake and Daniels remind him that
they're the ones who will be "investigating"
him. So Vallon orders one of his men to plant
a bomb in the driver's side wheel well of
Murphy's car that afternoon while Murphy is
visiting Lewis in the hospital.
Alex goes home to his wife Clara and 10-year-old
son David. After putting David to bed, he
and Clara start to have meat injection game
when the car alarm goes off. Worrying that
it'll wake David, Alex goes to turn it off.
The car alarm is a trap, and it lures him
outside, and the car is then blown up remotely.
Alex is critically wounded, subjected to fourth
degree burns over his entire body, both his
legs and one arm have to be amputated, he
is blind in one eye, and will probably be
deaf. Dr. Norton and his medical team, seeing
a perfect candidate for their project, convince
Clara to give consent to use Alex for the
program, although she is concerned as to what
kind of life he will have.
Three Months Later. Alex is at a party with
Clara, along with Jack and his wife. Alex
and Clara dance to a Frank Sinatra song. This
turns out to be a memory that Norton and Kim
are viewing as they put the finishing touches
on Alex's new mechanical suit. They wake him
up, and he is in shock as to what he sees.
He grabs Norton by the throat and throws him
down. Kim tries to shut Alex down as he runs
out of the room, but Norton tells her to let
him go. Alex continues to run until he hops
over the wall of the facility and through
a field before they're able to shut him down
and bring him back in.
Back in the lab, Norton speaks with Alex face-to-face
and shows him just what is left of him - only
his head, heart, lungs, and brain are still
intact. Alex is horrified by this and requests
that he die. Norton reminds him that Clara
signed the consent forms, so if they let him
die, the work will have been for nothing.
Alex later talks to Clara through a video
chat. She is happy to hear from him again.
Afterwards, he later sees news reports on
his attempted murder, and is dismayed that
much to his suspicions, Vallon is still out
there on the streets, Lake and Daniels having
scuttled the investigation into his attempted
murder, while Jack offers messages of support
for his fallen partner.
Alex is put through training and is set to
get familiar with his program. As Maddox shows
him, his suit can respond to a threat, taking
out a firearm if needed. Alex is taken a simulator
room where he is placed next to a basic EM-208.
As shown on a monitor, the robot responds
to threats quicker than Alex, who hesitates
and is conscious of potentially harming civilians,
yet also shows more sound tactics. Maddox
quips that he "wouldn't buy that for a dollar".
After Alex's simulator training is complete,
he moves on to field training. He is put to
the test against Maddox in an exoskeleton
along with other robots. As Alex easily maneuvers
through the robots' gunfire, he shoots them
all and tases Maddox for good measure. The
entire training is observed by Norton and
Sellars. Norton explains that although Alex
thinks he is the one carrying out these actions,
he is merely carrying out orders as programmed.
Kline points out that this is illegal, but
Sellars thinks it's fully legal for a machine
to think it is a man.
Norton drives Alex to his home where he will
get to see Clara and David for the first time.
David set up a "welcome home banner" for his
father. Alex enters his home, and although
both Clara and David are surprised by his
new appearance, they still embrace him.
A public press conference is held to present
the new and reformed Murphy to the city. While
he is getting set up, Norton and Kim see on
a monitor the emotions going through Murphy's
head as they put the police database information
into his head. When he starts to remember
his attempted murder, he becomes overwhelmed
and starts to have a seizure. Dr. Norton catches
him and is pressed by Kline and Pope to find
a solution in a matter of minutes. He and
Kim resolve to lower Murphy's emotional levels.
He walks out to find Clara and David waiting
for him. David says hello to his dad, but
Murphy just continues walking with no expression.
He passes Sellars and the mayor as they extend
their hands to him. Once he steps out before
everybody, the crowd goes silent as he begins
scanning the crowd for criminals with warrants.
Things escalate as he spots one man in the
crowd, Thomas King, who is wanted for murder.
Murphy calls the man out to arrest him. King
begins to run until Murphy hops into the crowd
and shoots him with a taser round to the back,
knocking him down.
The incident is spun by Pat Novak on his show
as a reason for people to finally get behind
this new program. He notes that King stood
within spitting distance of two cops who could
not identify him and that he has eluded the
police for six years on charges of rape, assault,
and murder, yet Alex was able to catch him
within a minute. As a result, public opinion
on the Dreyfuss Act begins to change. The
citizens of Detroit begin to embrace Alex,
giving him the nickname of RoboCop, though
some are against this due to the belief that
the police work belongs to human cops and
not a robot. However, Sellars tells Dr. Norton
to, for the meantime, keep Murphy away from
his family.
At the police station, Murphy comes in as
Chief Dean briefs the other officers on several
murder suspects. Murphy says he will take
on the case to look for a criminal named John
Biggs. He patrols through the city on his
motorcycle. He catches a few totally stoned
junkies, getting one to tell him where Biggs's
drug lab is. Murphy finds the lab and storms
in, gunning down Biggs's goons. Biggs tries
to run but Murphy has him cornered. He tries
to throw a grenade at Murphy, but he gets
shot in the leg and drops it, blowing himself
up in the process.
Days later, Alex is stopped on the street
by Clara as he's leaving to fight more crime.
She pleads for him to hear her as she tells
him that David is traumatized and is having
nightmares. Although Alex seemingly ignores
her, moments later, he can't help but tap
into CCTV footage to see reporters hounding
Clara and David as she tries to take him to
school.
Realizing how much he's become distant from
his family, Murphy rides back to his home
and inspects the crime scene where his car
blew up. He reviews the security footage that
recorded the blast, and is further dismayed
to realize that David witnessed his burning
body, leaving him fearful, anxious, and distressed.
He resolves to end Vallon once and for all.
To start, Murphy goes back to Jerry White,
the gun dealer who first told him and Lewis
about Vallon being behind the gun trafficking.
He tracks Jerry down and pulls him out of
his car to interrogate him. Jerry initially
resists and tries to avoid giving him answers,
until Murphy breaks his hand and gets him
to give up the identity of a man on Vallon's
crew that he's in contact with. Using his
access to the phone company records, Murphy
is able to locate Vallon's warehouse. As he
rides over to the warehouse, someone tips
off Vallon to Murphy's impending arrival.
Vallon rallies his men to grab their guns.
As an extra precaution, they turn the lights
off and don night-vision goggles, hoping to
make it harder for Murphy to get kill shots
on them. They open fire on Murphy as he blows
down the doors with his motorcycle. In the
barrage, Murphy gets his suit shot and his
visor broken, but he kills all of Vallon's
remaining gunmen, saving Vallon for last.
After gunning down Vallon, Murphy picks up
a gun from one of the fallen soldiers and
scans it for fingerprints, picking up prints
from Lake and Daniels.
Murphy returns to the police station, followed
by Jack. He interrogates Lake and Daniels,
showing the meeting through every monitor
in the station to prove their involvement
in the bombing. Daniels tries to shoot Murphy
but gets shot in return. Lake admits that
Dean was involved with both the shootout at
the restaurant and the car bomb. He tases
Lake and goes to confront Dean. Before he
can get a confession out of her, Maddox, operating
from the facility, shuts Murphy down. Maddox
reports this to Sellars who is in his helicopter.
On another episode of "The Novak Element",
Novak comments on how Murphy exposed the corruption
within the police department, further suggesting
why it's time to finally put the robots out
on the street. Meanwhile, Sellars meets with
Maddox, Kline, and Pope to talk about the
state of Murphy's condition. Kline issues
a statement to the public to say that Murphy
is in critical condition. Sellars decides
that they can use Murphy as a symbol of martyrdom
to stir up sympathy. Additionally, the Dreyfuss
Act is repealed. Clara demands to see her
husband but is denied.
Sellars sends Maddox and other mercenaries
out to destroy Murphy, preparing to tell Clara
that Alex died from his injuries. Kline arrives
at Clara's home and escorts her and David
to HQ to meet with Sellars. With Kim's help,
Dr. Norton runs into the facility where Murphy
is being kept, warning him that the mercenaries
are sent by Sellars and are there to kill
both of them. Murphy wakes up in time to kill
the two goons before they can fire at him
and Norton.
Murphy rides his motorcycle to OmniCorp Headquarters
and gets help from Lewis, who has rallied
the SWAT team to assist. He tases one guard
outside the building, forcing the others to
stand down. He flips his motorcycle into the
building, getting the attention of two ED-209
droids. They shoot at Murphy, but he gets
them to shoot at each other. A third droid
is caught in the chaos and falls from a great
height, and Alex's left arm is caught beneath
it. As more droids come in, Murphy is forced
to grab a submachine gun and shoot his left
arm off. The droids shoot at him, bringing
him down. Lewis runs in and stands in front
of him, giving Alex a chance to run. He is
found by Maddox and another goon, both of
whom are wearing red asset bracelets, which
keep Murphy from shooting either of them.
Before Maddox can deliver the fatal shot,
Lewis shoots him in the back and kills him,
and then kills the other goon before getting
shot himself, nonfatally. Murphy assesses
the wound and determines it to be non-fatal
to Lewis.
Murphy makes it to the rooftop of the building
as Sellars is waiting for a helicopter. Clara
and David are there with him, as are another
mercenary, along with Kline and Pope. Alex
orders the latter two to stand down, and they
comply. He attempts to arrest Sellars for
trying to have him killed, but he is also
wearing a red asset bracelet, and therefore
he cannot shoot him. Sellars aims his gun
at Alex, and then at Clara and David. This
gives Alex enough of a push to override his
program and shoot Sellars, who returns fire.
As Sellars dies, Clara and David rush to Alex's
side.
A while later, Alex is given a new repaired
suit. Clara and David are there to visit him.
He smiles as they come in.
The last scene shows one more segment of "The
Novak Element." The President has vetoed the
repeal of the Dreyfuss Act once Norton testifies
against OmniCorp's program. Despite this,
Novak is still pro-robot, continuing to praise
Sellars and bash Norton for being a whistleblower.
As he concludes his show, Novak urges viewers
to stop whining and to get with the program.
Thanks for watching See you in another Movie
Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click the bell
icon to get new video updates
Have a nice day